.. _contribute:

Contributing
============

How to contribute to pyPRISM?
-----------------------------
The ultimate goal of pyPRISM is to create a community of researchers who build
upon each others efforts in developing PRISM-based techniques and applying
these techniques to cutting edge problems. In order to make this possible, we
need outside contributions to the codebase. The source code and all development
for pyPRISM will be handled through the `repository
<https://github.com/usnistgov/pyPRISM.git>`_ on GitHub. The primary route for
adding a new module or feature to pyPRISM is through the common "fork + pull
request" paradigm that is used across Github. See `here
<https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/>`_ for a description on how to
carry out this process.  While this method is common in the open-source
community, we recognize that this may be over-complicated for some PRISM
researchers. Please file an `Issue
<https://github.com/usnistgov/pyPRISM/issues>`_ or contact the developers
directly if you have a contribution but don't wish to use git/GitHub to
integrate it.

Developer Documentation
-----------------------
As the pyPRISM user base grows and we start having regular contributions to the
codebase, we will explore putting together more detailed developer
documentation including a style guide and other resources. For now, interested
developers should rely on the API documentation provided here and the notebooks
at the end of the :ref:`tutorial`. Please file an `Issue
<https://github.com/usnistgov/pyPRISM/issues>`_ or contact the developers
directly if you need more information to contribute or if something is missing
from the documentation.  


